1. Check if Python is installed

Open the terminal (or Command Prompt on Windows) and type:

python --version


or

python3 --version


If something like Python 3.x.x appears, Python is installed.
If nothing appears or it gives an error, you need to install Python from the official website:
https://www.python.org

2. Create or have the .py file of the bot

The bot is saved as:

bot.py

3. Open the terminal in the file’s folder

You must be in the same directory where the .py file is located.

On Windows:

Click the address bar of the folder

Type cmd and press Enter

On Linux or macOS:

Right-click the folder

Choose “Open in Terminal” or use the cd command to navigate to it

4. Run the file

In the terminal, type:

python bot.py


or, on some systems:

python3 bot.py


After that, Python will read the file and execute all the instructions inside it.

5. If there are errors

If the code has errors, Python will show messages in the terminal indicating:

The line where the error happened

The type of error

The reason

This helps you find and fix the problem.

Before running the bot, you need to create it on the Discord Developer website.

Go to
https://discord.com/developers/applications

Click “New Application”, give your bot a name, and create the application.

Open the “Bot” tab and click “Add Bot”.

There you will see the bot TOKEN.
Copy this token. It works like the bot’s password.

In the bot settings, enable the correct permissions, such as:

Read Messages

Send Messages

Use Slash Commands (if you use them)

Manage Messages (if the bot needs to delete messages)

Go to OAuth2 → URL Generator, select:

bot

applications.commands (if you use slash commands)

Then choose the permissions the bot should have in the server and copy the generated link to invite the bot.

In your bot.py file, you will see something like:

TOKEN = "Seu token aqui"


Replace "Seu token aqui" with the token you copied from the Discord Developer site.

Save the file and run:

python bot.py


If everything is correct, the bot will come online in your server.
